specify_cli(1) -- A command line interface for Specify
===============================================================================

## SYNOPSIS

`specify_cli` [**-D**|**--database** <name>]
              [**-H**|**--host** <name>]
              [**-P**|**--password** <password>]
              [**-U**|**--specify_user** <name>]
              [**-c**|**--db_config** <file>]
              [**-p**|**--port** <number>]
              [**-u**|**--user** <name>]
              <command> [<options>] [<args>]

## DESCRIPTION
**specify_cli** is a tool that allows certain tasks in a Specify database to be
carried out from the command line.
Specify is a management system for biological collections developed by the
Specify Collections Consortium (http://www.sustain.specifysoftware.org).

**specify_cli** is an independent development that is not supported by the
Specify Collections Consortium. It operates directly on the MySQL/MariaDB
backend used by Specify. **Use at your own risk**.

Tasks currently supported:

* upload of user interface form definitions (*.views.xml* files) to the database
* generation of collection object stub records

## FILES

`~/.specify_dbs.rc.yaml` is a YAML file that stores information about
Specify databases and directories containing *.views.xml* files.
The file has the general structure:

    ---
    :dir_names:
      <view_file_directory>: <hostname>
      ...
    :hosts:
      <hostname>:
        :port: <port_number>
        :databases:
          <database_name>:
            :db_user:
              :name: <mysql_username>
              :password: <password>
            :sp_user: <specify_username>
          ...
        ...

The section `dir_names` contains directory-host-mappings. A directory-host-
mapping is a key-value-pair, where the key is the path of a directory on your
hard drive, the value is a host name. This is used to automatically resolve the
correct host for a *.views.xml* file based on the directory it is in. Add
mappings here by editing the file or using the **specify_cli-repository(1)**
command.

The section `hosts` contains settings for Specify databases by grouped by
`<hostname>`. For each host, the `port` and any `databases` can be configured in
this file by editing it or by using the **specify_cli-database(1)** command. The `databases` section contains connection settings for the individual databases by
`<database_name>`. The `db_user` is the MySQL/MariaDB user used to connect to
the database and will typically be the Specify *master user*. Leave `password`
blank to be prompted for the password when you run the command (this will not
work when triggered as a bash script from another application, e.g. a text
editor). Apart from the `db_user` `specify_cli` also needs a Specify user (a
user that Specify uses internally), which is provided under `sp_user`. Every
command (except the configuration commands **specify_cli-database(1)** and **specify_cli-repository(1)**) will start a session in Specify where the Specify
user will be logged in to the collection. Any records created or modified during
this session will be marked as created by or modified by the `sp_user`.

## COMMANDS

* `specify_cli-database`(1)
    Add a database configuration.
* `specify_cli-stubs`(1)
    Create stub records
* `specify_cli-repository`(1)
    Map a git repository to a host for automatic target resolution.
* `specify_cli-viewset`(1)
    Upload a view to the database.

## OPTIONS

* `-D`, `--database` <name>:
    The name of the Specify database to connect to.
* `-H`, `--host` <name>:
    The name or IP address of the host. Default: `localhost`
* `-P`, `--password` <password>:
    The password for the MySQL/MariaDB user. Leave blank to be prompted.
* `-U`, `--specify_user` <name>:
    The name of the Specify user.
* `-c`, `--db_config` <file>:
    A database configuration file (if other than the default
    `~/.specify_dbs.rc.yaml`)
* `-p`, `--port` <number>:
    The port for the MySQL/MariaDB host.
* `-u`, `--user` <name>:
    The MySQL/MariaDB user name.

## EXAMPLES

Configure a database `Specify` on the host `specify.example.org`:

    $ specify_cli --host=specify.example.org database specify

Map the current directory to the host `specify.example.org`:

    $ specify_cli --host=specify.example.org repository -c

Map `~/specify_forms/invertpaleo` to `localhost`:

    $ specify_cli repository ~/specify_forms/invertpaleo

Create 10 blank stub records in the collection `Triloites` in the database
`Specify` on localhost:

    $ specify_cli -D Specify stubs Trilobites 10

Create 10 stub records for herbarium sheets in the collection `Orchids` in the
database `Specify` on localhost, determined to taxon `Orchidaceae`:

    $ specify_cli -D Specify stubs --taxon='Family: Orchidaceae'\n
        --preptype=Sheet --perpcount=1 Orchids 10

Upload `invertpaleo.views.xml` to discipline level for collection `Trilobites`
in the database `Specify` on localhost:

    $ specify_cli -D Specify viewset -d Trilobites invertpaleo.views.xml

Upload `invertpaleo.views.xml` auto-resolving target from current Git branch:

    $ specify_cli viewset -b invertpaleo.views.xml

## LICENSE

MIT License

Copyright (c) 2018 Martin Stein

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.
