specify_cli-stubsy(1) -- A command line interface for Specify
===============================================================================

## SYNOPSIS

`specify_cli` [<global options>] `stubs` [<options>] <collection> <count>
`specify_cli` `stubs` `--file` <count>

## DESCRIPTION

The stubs command creates stub records in a collection, so that catalog
numbers can be printed to labels e.g. prior to mass digitizaton. The command
currently only works for collection objects, and will currently only work for
collections using the numeric catalog numbering scheme.

Generated catalog numbers are printed to stdout.

The number of stub records created is specified with the *count* argument.
The target collection is provided as the *collection* argument. *Host* and
*database* are provided using the global options `--host` and `--database`
respectively.
The command will generate a record set with all generated collection objects.
The record set will be owned by either the *Specify user* (as provided via the
global option `--specify_user` or in the database configuration file), or the
*Specify user* provided with the `--cataloger` option. If no dataset name is
provided using the `--dataset` option, the default name will be `stub record set
<TIMESTAMP>`.

Records can be created with the following basic information (provided using
command options - see below): cataloger, accession, geography/locality, taxon,
preparation.

Only existing accessions and preparation types can be assigned at present.
Unknown items will raise an error.

If geographic information is provided, but no locality name, the
default locality name will be `not cataloged, see label`. This can be changed
using the `--locality` option. Geographic information should be passed in the
format `Geographic Rank: Name; Geographic Subrank: Name; locality: name` where
*locality* is optional (if not given, the default locality name will be used).
Only geographic names/ranks and locality names that exist in the database will
can be used (unknown item will raise an error).

Taxon information is assigned as a determination. Only one determination can
be given to a stub records using the command. Taxon information is provided
in the format `Taxon Rank: Name; Taxon Subrank: Name`. Only taxonomic names that exist in the database will be accepted. Unknown items will raise an error.

Alternatively to using the options, a YAML file with all required information
can be passed with the `--file option`. In that case, the *database* and
*collection* arguments can be ommitted.

## FILES

YAML files with stub record information provided using the `--file` option
should have the general structure:

    ---
    :stub_generator:
      :host: <hostname>
      :database: <database name>
      :collection: <collection name>
      :config: <database configuration file>
    dataset_name: <record set name>
    accession: <accession number>
    cataloger: <specify user name>
    collecting_data:
      <1st rank>: <name>
      <2nd rank>: <name>
      <3rd rank>: <name>
      :locality: <name>
    default_locality_name: <name>
    determination:
      <rank>: <name>
    preparation:
      :type: <preparation type>
      :count: <preparation count>

Items prefixed with `:` in the YAML will be deserialized as Ruby symbols and
need to be prefixed with `:` in your file. Leave any unnecessary items out.
The first section `:stub_generator` contains connection information. When
`:config` is left out, *stubs* will use the config file provided with the global
option `--db_config` or the default file `~/.specify_dbs.rc.yaml` if none
provided. Likewise, `:host`, and `:database` can be provided using the global
options `--host` and `--database` respectively.

If you provide the `:locality` under `collecting data:`, this will have
precedence over the `default_locality_name`, so the latter is redundant.

## OPTIONS

* `-f`, `--file` <file>:
    Load stub record information from a YAML file.
* `-c`, `--cataloger` <name>:
    Specify user appearing as cataloger and owner of the record set.
* `-d`, `--dataset` <name>:
    Name of the datas set (record set) generated.
* `-a`, `--accession` <accession_number>
    Accession number for the accession to which the stub records belong.
* `-g`, `--geography` <geography>
    Geographic and locality information for the stub records. Format of
    <geography>: `'Rank1: Name; Rank2: Name; locality: name'`
* `-l`, `--locality` <name>:
    Default locality name if geographic information has no locality.
* `-t`, `--taxon` <taxon>:
    Taxon to which stub records are determined.  Format of <taxon>:
    `'Rank1: Name; Rank2: Name; locality: name'`
* `-p`, `--preptype` <name>:
    Preparation type for the stub records, if they have preparations.
* `-n`, `--prepcount` <number>:
    Number of preparation items (requires --preptype to be set).

## EXAMPLES

Create 10 blank stub records in the collection `Triloites` in the database
`Specify` on localhost:

    $ specify_cli -D Specify stubs Trilobites 10

Create 10 stub records determined to `Asaphidae` in the collection `Triloites`
in the database`Specify` on localhost:

    $ specify_cli -D Specify stubs\n
        --taxon='Class: Trilobita; Order: Asaphida; Family: Asaphidae'\n
        Trilobites 10

Create 10 stub records for herbarium sheets in the collection `Orchids` in the
database `Specify` on localhost, determined to taxon `Orchidaceae`:

    $ specify_cli -D Specify stubs --taxon='Family: Orchidaceae'\n
        --preptype=Sheet --perpcount=1 Orchids 10

Create 10 stub records for herbarium sheets in the collection `Orchids` in the
database `Specify` on localhost, determined to taxon `Orchidaceae`, collected
in `Downtown Lawrence`:

    $ specify_cli -D Specify stubs --taxon='Family: Orchidaceae'\n
        --geography='Country: United States, State: Kansas,\n
        County: Douglas County; locality: Downtown Lawrence'
        --preptype=Sheet --perpcount=1 Orchids 10

Create 10 stub records from a YAML file `stub_details.yaml`:

    $ specify_cli stubs --file=stub_details.yaml 10

## SPECIFY_CLI

Part of the specify_cli(1) suite
