specify_cli-database(1) -- A command line interface for Specify
===============================================================================

## SYNOPSIS

`specify_cli` [<global options>] `database` <name>

## DESCRIPTION

The database configuration file (default: *~/.specify\_dbs.rc.yaml*) has a
`hosts` section which contains settings for Specify databases by grouped by
*hostname*.

Use the `database` command to add information for a specific database using this command.

Use the specify\_cli global option `--host` to provide the host information and
pass the *name* of the database to configure as an argument.

The command will look up the *host* and *database* in the database configuration
file and ask for necessary information to configure either. The command will
not overwrite existing configurations. If you need to change information, edit
the file.

Information required to configure a *host* is the port number.

Information required to configure a *database* is the MySQL/MariaDB user name
and password. The user will be the typically be the Specify *master user* (or
any user with equivalent permissions on the database) Leave the password blank
to be prompted when working with commands that read the file (**specify_cli-stubs(1)**, **specify_cli-viewset(1)**). Apart from the
MySQL/MariaDB user, `specify_cli` the command will also ask for a *specify user*
name. Every command (except the configuration commands
**specify_cli-database(1)** and **specify_cli-repository(1)**) will start a
session in Specify where the Specify user will be logged in to the collection.
Any records created or modified during this session will be marked as created by
or modified by the *specify user*.

## OPTIONS

None.

## EXAMPLES

Configure a database `Specify` on the host `specify.example.org`:

    $ specify_cli --host=specify.example.org database Specify

Configure a database `SpecifyTest` on localhost:

    $ specify_cli database SpecifyTest

## SPECIFY_CLI

Part of the specify_cli(1) suite
